# 7. Loops

There are two main types of general purpose loops called `for` and `while`.  In almost all cases, we want to perform some loop until a pre-determined condition has been met.

## For Loop

The syntax of a for loop is "for `counter` in `range`".  The simplest way to show this is with:

```rust
fn main() {  
    for i in 0..10 {  
        println!("{}", i);  
    }  
}
```

The `0..10` portion is a shorthand way to define a range, basically 0 to 10.  The value `i` is automatically incremented after each loop and will automatically break out when `i < 10`.  This code will print the numbers 0 through 9 because if i is equal to 10, then it's obviously not less than 10.  If you want to include the final value, you can add an equals sign before the 10, this will change the logic of the loop to be `i <= 10`.

```rust
fn main() {  
    for i in 0..=10 {  
        println!("{}", i);  
    }  
}
```

These loops are commonly used to iterate over elements in a collection.

```rust
fn main() {  
    let array = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];  
    for index in 0..array.len() {  
        println!("{}", array[index]);  
    }  
}
```

Instead of manually defining the range using 0 and the array's length, you can use `iter()`.  This will actually make index a pointer to the data, rather than an actual index number  So you can print it more like this:

```rust
fn main() {  
    let array = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];  
    for data in array.iter() {  
        println!("{}", data);  
    }  
}
```

## While Loop

A while loop can be more flexible than a for loop, because we do not need a predetermined range to iterate over (although they can be written like that).  A while loop will loop forever whilst the condition is met.  This condition is usually defined outside of the loop itself but can be manipulated from inside the loop.

```rust
fn main() {  
    let mut counter = 0;  
  
    while counter <= 10 {  
        println!("{}", counter);  
        counter += 1;  
    }  
}
```

Another way to write this could be.

```rust
fn main() {  
    let mut counter = 0;  
  
    while 1 == 1 {  
        if counter > 10 {  
            break;  
        }  
  
        println!("{}", counter);  
        counter += 1;  
    }  
}
```

The `break` keyword can be used to break out of a loop at any time, regardless of whether its condition is met or not.  The `continue` keyword can be used to skip the remaining code in a loop and move immediately onto the next loop iteration.  For example:

```rust
fn main() {  
    let mut counter = 0;  
  
    while counter <= 10 {  
        if counter == 5 {  
            break;  
        }  
  
        println!("{}", counter);  
        counter += 1;  
    }  
}
```

You must be careful however, as this can introduce unexpected runtime bugs.  The code above will actually loop infinitely, because we continue before incrementing the counter.  Therefore never allowing it to go beyond 5.

## Rust Loop

Rust has its own special `loop` keyword, which is designed to run as an infinite loop.  It's more efficient than a "while true" loop, because it does not have to evaluate an expression on each loop.

```rust
fn main() {  
    let mut counter = 0;  
  
    loop {  
        println!("{}", counter);  
        if counter >= 10 {  
            break;  
        }  
  
        counter += 1;  
    }  
}
```