If your engagement is not being kicked off via an “assume breach” methodology and you need to gain initial entry into the target network yourselves, some external reconnaissance will be required.  The reconnaissance phase is vital as it provides information that will be leveraged to exploit the target or gain access to data.

There are two main facets of recon - **organisational** and **technical**.

During "organisational" recon, you’re focused on collecting information about the organisation.  This can include the people who work there (names, jobs and skills), the organisational structure, site locations and business relationships.

During "technical" recon, you’re looking for systems such as public-facing websites, mail servers, remote access solutions, and any vendors or products in use, particularly defensive ones - web proxies, email gateways, firewalls, antivirus etc.

Gathering either type of information can be done "passively" or "actively".

Passive collection relies on 3rd party sources such as Google, LinkedIn, Shodan and social media - where you are not actively touching parts of the target network.

Active, as it sounds, is directly touching those components which could be as simple as visiting the target’s website, or port scanning their IP ranges.  Active recon is inherently riskier than passive, as it provides an organisation with their first potential indication that they’re being looked at.

Whilst conducting active recon, consider doing so via a proxy or VPN service to not expose your public IP address.

***Because the lab has no outbound Internet access, you must use your own VM if you want to follow along with these steps.  But they are optional, so feel free not to.***


