Google "dorking" is a fancy way of using Google's advanced search operators to find very targeted information.  The [Google Hacking Database](https://www.exploit-db.com/google-hacking-database) contains hundreds of examples, but I'll cover some basic uses here.

  

**site:**  Limit the search results to those from a specific website.  
**site:apple.com**

Not so useful by itself but will return every page that Google has indexed for the apple.com domain.

  

**intitle:**  Find pages with a certain word in the title.  
**intitle:apple**

This will return every page that contains the word "apple" in the title.

  

**inurl:**  Find pages with a certain word in the URL.  
**inurl:apple**

This will return every page where "apple" appears in the URL.

  

**intext:**  Find pages containing a certain word (or words) somewhere in the content.  
**intext:apple**

This will return every page where "apple" appears in the body text.

  

**filetype:**  Search for filetypes that Google understands.  
**site:apple.com filetype:pdf**

This will return all PDFs on apple.com.  Other filetypes such as docx, pptx and xlsx also work.  This could be combined with **intitle:report** to find all PDFs that have "report" in the name.  Google does not understand all filetypes, so inurl could be used instead.

  

**#..#:**  Search for a range of numbers.  
**site:apple.com filetype:pdf 2020..2022**

This will return all PDFs on apple.com which contain the numbers 2020, 2021 and 2022.  Useful for finding information constrained to a given timeframe.  
  
  

**-:**  Exclude a phrase.  
**site:apple.com -www -support**

This will return pages indexed on apple.com excluding the _www_ and _support_ domains.  Useful for finding other subdomains.

  

These dorks can be used to find interesting files, web applications and information.