Moving laterally between computers in a domain is important for accessing sensitive information/materials, and obtaining new credentials.  Cobalt Strike provides three strategies for executing Beacons/code/commands on remote targets.

The first and most convenient is to use the built-in `jump` command - the syntax is `jump [method] [target] [listener]`.  Type `jump` to see a list of methods.  This will spawn a Beacon payload on the remote target, and if using a P2P listener, will connect to it automatically.
```
beacon> jump

Beacon Remote Exploits
======================

    Exploit                   Arch  Description
    -------                   ----  -----------
    psexec                    x86   Use a service to run a Service EXE artifact
    psexec64                  x64   Use a service to run a Service EXE artifact
    psexec_psh                x86   Use a service to run a PowerShell one-liner
    winrm                     x86   Run a PowerShell script via WinRM
    winrm64                   x64   Run a PowerShell script via WinRM
```
  

Each `method` has it's own set of OPSEC concerns - we'll review some of the main indicators of each technique as we go through them.

The second strategy is to use the built-in `remote-exec` command - the syntax is `remote-exec [method] [target] [command]`.  Type `remote-exec` to see a list of methods.
```
beacon> remote-exec

Beacon Remote Execute Methods
=============================

    Methods                         Description
    -------                         -----------
    psexec                          Remote execute via Service Control Manager
    winrm                           Remote execute via WinRM (PowerShell)
    wmi                             Remote execute via WMI
```
  

The `remote-exec` commands simply provide a means of executing commands on a remote target.  They are therefore not exclusive to lateral movement, but they can be used as such.  They require more manual work to manage the payload, but do offer a wider degree of control over what gets executed on the target.  You also need to connect to P2P Beacons manually using `connect` or `link`.

The third is to use Cobalt Strike's other primitives (`powershell`, `execute-assembly`, etc) to implement something entirely custom.  This requires the most amount of effort but also offers you the greatest degree of control.  Custom methods can be integrated into the `jump` and `remote-exec` commands using Aggressor.

Each of these strategies are compatible with the various techniques described in the **User Impersonation** chapter.  For example, you can use `pth` to impersonate a user and then `jump` to move laterally.

Some of Seatbelt's commands can also be run remotely, which can be useful enumerating its configurations and  defences before jumping to it.
```
beacon> execute-assembly C:\Tools\Seatbelt\Seatbelt\bin\Release\Seatbelt.exe OSInfo -ComputerName=web

  Hostname                      :  web
  Domain Name                   :  dev.cyberbotic.io
  ProductName                   :  Windows Server 2022 Datacenter
  EditionID                     :  ServerDatacenter
  ReleaseId                     :  2009
  Build                         :  20348
  BuildBranch                   :  fe_release
  CurrentMajorVersionNumber     :  10
  CurrentVersion                :  6.3
  Architecture                  :  AMD6
```

Most lateral movement techniques leverage legitimate Windows management functionality, as this type of traffic and activity is not unusual to see on a network.